hi everyone welcome to go through all of
the initiatives which was so ready to go
[Music]
yes it is in the works we are looking to
launch that on Tuesday so we're just
doing a bunch of preparation for that
awesome testing and yeah and release
prep and release announcements and
migration notes and all of that good
stuff is in the works this week so we're
working on getting that out for Tuesday
next Tuesday not tomorrow
exciting the next the next high priority
initiative is content meeting what's
going on yeah for that as I mentioned
about five so we're prepping for that
and then we are also formally kicking
off the work 406 tomorrow and so we'll
start working on that any patches 405
will definitely take priority but we're
gonna start working on that and we'll
start rolling with our six-week release
cycle so we can start working that's
what we're gonna be working towards is
6-week releases and then we'll just be
cutting stuff so that people get the
things sooner and yeah so there's a Zen
hub board I'll be updating that there's
a couple quick fixes for there and some
consolidation of efforts that we're
gonna do but that is the gist there and
then we'll create in oh da 6 release
issue as well in go ipfs and then do
kind of an overview there of the things
to come looking forward to that that's
gonna be amazing
can anybody tell us what's going on with
the hydro
yeah I can take that
so hydraboost is now this sorry it's
been a while since I've been here so
we're just sort of putting everything I
know hasn't been announced yet in here
but the motor abuse is now proactively
fine providers it's asked about so being
a DHT participant it gets asked like who
has this all the time and so so what it
does is it if it doesn't know the answer
then it goes and looks it up and then
stores it so that next time it's asked
it nodes so that's super cool the
dependencies have been updated to later
to p2p and the CAD DHT module so we're
running stuff that is going to be in the
0-5 release the peer IDs so hydras have
many many many many many many heads
peter added balanced peer ids so when we
generate what what it does is it
generates parodies randomly but what we
don't want to happen is when that
generation happens for those peer IDs
end up like next to each other in the
same bucket sort of thing so they're
actually generated so that their balance
in the tree and that's great but it was
only happening put a Hydra and we run
multiple hydras because of the
limitations of machines you can only run
like say you know 200 or so heads per
Hydra before things start like falling
over so balancing them on one Hydra is
great but you could have overlap another
potras so now what we've done is we have
one Hydra ID gen server and the other
hydras in the Hydra swarm ask that ID
gen server to generate a pair ID so all
of the pair ideas that are generated are
balanced across all hydras so that is
good news and other stuff is the whole a
big part of Hydra is that there's a big
belly where all of the data is stored
all of the provider records and all of
the Hydra heads share that data and and
that's good again the Hydra but if we've
got multiple hydras then like we might
be asked for something one fighter might
be asked for something that is another
hydras belly so what
Isabelly one belly to rule all the
hydras that's just kind of weird you
know what I mean it's so what we did he
had this like one store with all of the
data in it that all of the hydras can
can get data from and we've been working
on getting the there's a old sequel
datastore for go ipfs that Jeremy
created a long time ago that I've been
fixing up it now passes all the ghost
datastore tests and it now streams
results instead of buffering them all
into memory so that's good I then tried
to use it and ran into a number of other
problems like seg faults and deadlocks
so I'm currently working through solving
that but once that's done we'll have a
persistent datastore that is shared by
all hydras so that's super good news the
final thing that happened was that we
moved we were hosting it on Google cloud
but turns out sending data across the
Internet is cost a lot of money in
Google cloud who knew we changed so
changed as we moved them to distillation
and that's made a whole lot easier now
because of the kubernetes configs are
saved in the repo so that we can just
put it here and put it somewhere else we
don't like distillation put it wherever
you know we can do that quite easily now
so that's good
next up for Hydra is we just get that
Postgres sequel datastore working or one
thing I didn't put down here with that
I've been working on is like all the
Hydra heads are trying to GC that cared
datastore because provider records don't
last forever they last like 24 hours and
then they get tea seed but all of like
200 heads of a Hydra trying to t see the
same data sort and ideally we don't want
that so I'm just working out how to do
just get one of the heads to do garbage
collection on that repo and so then ya
need need to get a rollout plan
for rolling out hydro with zero five
what needs to happen there and next up I
wanted to improve the metrics for
finding providers you can see a picture
there of what we now have we're able to
know like how long it's taking us to
find provider records in the network
like look so we can look at like stuff
that we already have stuff that we found
in the network stuff that we don't have
and isn't found in the network and then
the other like orange one you can see in
that screenshot is like we get asked the
same time for the same cid like who has
this the ID like lots of times so we
like we discard some requests for
content so we're doing a lot of
discarding like I need to we need to
figure out a little bit more why why
we're having to do that and what could
be done about it so we've got some good
metrics they need to be improved and
then lastly to finish this massive long
ramble I apologize I just want to do a
little bit of visualizing hiker boosters
on network and validating their
effectiveness and just having something
to show that that's Hydra hooray
little harder indeed - wow so cool
moving on next episode - name you tell
us what's going on man most important
fix was to redirect directories so when
you set up a subdomain gateway that
subdomain gateway will still accept
requests for the old-school paths so if
you ask subdomain gateway for slash ipfs
something it will return a redirect to
the proper resource on the subdomain and
we did that for files the problem was
the directory listings were created by a
different code and that was not
redirected so it stayed until you
clicked on the file and that file and
then you got redirected to a subdomain
so now we fix that and everything from
the get-go gets redirected to subdomain
it it was not really a security problem
because we control how direct the HTML
responsible for directory listings
however like it looked weird so that's
fixed I'm not sure if it's in our c2 or
it will be in the next one but but
that's the main fix and something that
already landed but I did not mention
before and probably like we sneaked that
intuitive as 0.5 but I don't believe it
was described anywhere outside of the PR
and I realized I did not even close the
issue about supporting like case
insensitive IP NS identifiers so just
for a quick illustration maybe can you
see my screen
yes cool all right so I'll make it super
brief it's part like very important part
of the CID p1 immigration was supporting
case-insensitive IP NS names and now we
support that both in the gateway and
also account in the command line so in
the command line when you let resolve
the old-school identifiers this is base
58 it's case sensitive it can point at
arbitrary content paths however we are
not able to put that in subdomain so we
support representing pin write this a
CID v1 so we can put them in subdomains
the problem is it's it's using a
different multi codec so it like it's
like self describing that it's not a
Content like it's not an identifier from
regular ipfs half its representing
little peaky
so what happens when you use CID v1 with
different multi codec in this case is
doc to be which you will get when you
convert this old-school thing to the new
thing using the standard command we will
you will get this useful error that hey
this PID is represented as CATV one but
it has a wrong multi codec and in the
same message we already did the proper
conversion and it's ready for you so if
you retry with that one you will
properly resolve IP and s name and you
can see like you but can probably won't
see this but the only difference is here
this is doc baby and here it's little
piggy but I think it's very useful thing
to know that we handle this on the
command line there is this useful error
message and on the Gateway you don't
even notice because when we redirect
when we redirect a sub-domain the
multi-core deck is automatically fixed
up so I think it's useful to know that
it is there you can use not only ipfs in
subdomains but also i pns identifiers
and next would be adding support for
subdomains to J's ipfs but it's like I
have got other stuff on that right and
we'll get to that eventually from it's
because I want to have interrupted suit
like add a gateway interrupt a suit
which are the other folks other
implementations who want to provide a
gateway functionality can run against we
have a CID command-line tool for
changing cid into base 52 just wondering
if if there was any plans or or if you
think there's any need for like a a tool
that will convert your payer ID into the
base verb to version with with the
lipids be key rather than just PP so
like the problem is when you pass the
CID to that command like ipfs CID base
42 right when you pass a CID there's no
way to tell if if it's like dag PB is
that an error or is that what I really
want you would have to pass the full
path like /i P and s and then CID but
that's like something most of people
want to do they just copy just the CID
so that's why we provide this useful
error message so it's it's not a big
blocker but people immediately learn
that oh there's this multi codec if I
want to do this more often
I need to account that in my workflow
there is also a in the ipfs CID command
itself you can print CID v-0 as CID v1
and manually specify the multi codec so
that's already in the command like it
will already only
the shipping that so I don't think
anything else is needed shouldn't see so
I guess my my follow-up question is like
when day when the pair IDs become base
30 to the p2p Keys like the fall like
when you create a new IKEA fascinate is
that ever gonna happen yeah so I think
that's a decision we need to make around
them the moment we've flipped a switch
for the ipfs right so if we change the
output of all the command line tools to
base 42 we may do the same for peer IDs
just for the sake of like having uniform
representation of everywhere mmm but
that's like probably four than 0.6 or
further okay thank you
mr. on the list is bits work on dates
don't oh my video yeah so there was just
a couple of couple of issues we're
clearing up as we were pushing towards
the 0.5 release so one of those was we
had a race in a way they were handling
requests for once and cancelled so
that's fixed now and then we were also
there was a related problem with how we
were managing managing connection so we
just kind of done a refactor to move
that into the networking layer so it
simplifies the rest of the code so
hopefully I've got a little bit more
work to doing connection management
hopefully that'll be finished by today
yes
so I am burning down things 2.0.1
the last piece remaining was to put
together the ability to run multiple
chunker's at the same time one of the
other without penalizing anything so
subject runs in other go routines but
because we're dealing with the stream of
discuss video samples correctly in order
after that and it took a very arduous
rewrite of how all of this is being put
together which is actually done it has
been done seems like late yesterday
unfortunately I have failing tests that
only fails undergo test it works
perfectly on like if I if I run the very
same thing with on the command line and
the command line just just does
everything do I expect the moment you go
go test for test I had written before it
blows up with actual memory errors and
stuff like that
so I am tracking this down as fast as I
can
unfortunately none of the go race tools
or instantly these are useful because
the moment you slow down your execution
everything goes away problem so I'm
basically listening through the code and
commenting section after section once
you find it and I am actually at the
spot where I would want a couple of
queries interested to attend basically a
can like a aux review session too before
we open it up to the to the wider
community
I am hoping to schedule this for
tomorrow please leave a note in the in
the crypto pad if you want to attend and
I'll figure out how to how to schedule
this around it will be like half an hour
or just showing you what what it does a
little bit of background why we are
where we are and then any input you know
on what is weird or what is awesome and
that's that so I have a create a design
review section from those another so you
broke up Kane series again so a query
design review section protocol signup
cool we are running out of time so using
on the most offices in industry
yeah I will be fairly quick
we finished grant phase one and if you
look in the crypt pad you can see the
full roster of HTTP API endpoints that
we support now in addition to just the
underlying rust API is that perform up
functionality and we also got the ipfs
name on crates IO so soon you'll be able
to include that in your Russ project or
cargo install ipfs which is pretty neat
we want to you know where our intent is
to apply for another grant round to get
more functionality in and move towards
basic UNIX FS and Gateway functionality
as well with the idea that we can like
launched the first rust gateway or
something cool note is that
yonas from the team figured out a way to
have the compile time which was becoming
pretty long so that was cool and then
for requests I just have the list in the
crib pad of the jeaious ipfs pull
requests that need I guess attention or
whatever that's all from us well I will
get some those POS something I've done
in order to as well to help you guys out
and I'm still about as well as we've had
a refactor on the cards for the UNIX FS
import or a1 because it kind of uses the
internal IP LD instance chair so I
confess my view like today to only use
the block AP on that the public API
that's super helpful yeah yes you should
be able to use that to experiment with
all kinds of weird used to turret dive
structures and and it helps us to
because we used to double serialized
blocks because of quirk of how my code
is structured and that doesn't happen
anymore so it's a little bit faster and
if I can play with it - I was waiting
for reveal we really appreciate the
effort so thank you it's really really
exciting to see like us in another
language
yeah say first here who I'm meeting on
the pace to enjoy yes ma'am
everyone so in piercer improvements
well milestone one with the address book
in beretta book is not closed
OPR is over murder
Linda just between 0.25 release branch
which is school the second milestone
with the period for removal from all the
codebase in the API it's in a good shape
now all the needed PRS are reviewed
Jacob already reviewed in merged PRS for
the interface so the other content
elements will go for the view
now also since we are removing peer info
basically in jest between Jessup EFS we
were using peer info to provide to the
listen addresses so as we removed the
pure evil
I'm also working on an address manager
component where we will be able to
provide toodle-pip reconfiguration
announce no announcing Western addresses
which was the thing that we wanted to
support for a while but has been in a
backlog and finally this week I will
start also working on the implementation
of the milestone tree which will include
peer start persistence for the address
book in the brother book and then in the
future the mouse one for will integrate
key book with the persistence also for
Linton keys and that's it
who
non-cancellable requests you Jaso PFS
I'm working myself a moment you've got
Piazza at the moment well so there's
been merchants the importer I killed in
a block service and that's basically
just passing so we're using them like
said correctly this has this idea of the
contact and the context as a deadline
and you can expire sexually so we have
any Jeremy has bought controllers which
ever bought signal you can listen to in
the board signal and that pulsing any
fire after a time now or if the user
manually abort it or if it's over HTTP
and the connection gets seven and so not
every like the first kind of round is to
basically passed out a bulletin to every
single API request not every API request
will respond to it because some
synchronous some just don't have
anything to counsel the ones that the
first two that I want to get to Council
is if you're requesting a CID that you
don't have in your we play so it gets
added to that's what oneness and if you
cancel that request this should vanish
from the bids what oneness what's the
first thing the other thing is limited
piece with your opening connections to
other mates and the request gets
canceled those conventions of thunder
once those are those two things happen
and in accord but first when I'm done
and ship it and I will be super exciting
what I've canceled the question or
mostly
hearing your explanation I'm not sure if
like turning all the connections that
were already hoping is a good strategy
just because it was a lot of turn you
probably want to cancel all of the asks
to open for more connections so anything
that is on the queue to like dial just
like canceled those but I call the ones
that you have already opened that are a
part of the routing table or if you like
change already like other protocols just
like keep them around because it's
something that you have like it might be
the case that you had to close previous
connections to open those right and so
if now you close the new ones then you
will run out of connections you can just
a cube anyone's you know I just call it
like the new state so this is like my
my observation maybe I'm wrong maybe
like there is an analogy that price yeah
I - what it means to be like what's
actually achieving because like the
concern is that if you have someone
figure I said it's worth looking into
yeah what's achievable or more isn't
more the strategy because the concern is
like if you have somebody hammering the
API with a bunch of nonsense requests
that cause where these things can happen
you can put some rate-limiting in front
of it you might want to cancel some of
those requests that come in already
limit cancelling a bunch of the things
like taking it out of the one twist like
rate limiting the API request it's just
like you opening your connection is such
an expensive thing that you don't want
now to just like close the ones that you
already have open like my quite the
collection manager decide that that's
what I'm saying I'm check we're at time
oh we are at time I think I wants to
drop off drop off otherwise we'll go
through the priority initiative and
Buddha put the lists I'm sorry the other
initiatives you know supposed to be one
point for performance so I had a little
one of forms that we have is that the
streaming right so jenny was called
really fast when we started paralyzing
the ingestion of blocks and so we can
like crush them all and power on one two
just in parallel they've got way more a
faster than it used to be but what the
place that doesn't work is over HTTP
because you can only come to many we'd
one block at a time before you send the
first result but you have to read all of
the block before you can send any
results with the HTTP is a request
immune response
you can't have a bi-directional
communication where those recipients can
use WebSockets and stop if we don't do
it just means HTTP so I had this idea of
like what if you could just do all that
parallelization on the client and send
loads of requests in parallel to the
service because
Harley's high density refactoring of the
unit suppressant Porter excuse the Bach
API but suddenly you can do all the
chunking on the kind and called Bach API
loads of times from crime which in
theory will be a little costly turns out
it's actually slowly and which was two
years so yeah I was a dead end
it should be to support bi-directional
streaming not only HTTP servers are
client supported HTTP supports it
yeah so if this is home with JavaScript
with the browser the browser doesn't do
this work what happened can look into it
is this is how I do everything Inc oh
we're like you you send all your data
stringing and you receive the data
streaming hmm and then the co HT terror
does not like this actually we work on
it
well if you so needy to five 119 usual
starting work on that this week going to
make sure that J s the p2p Golub to
dbgap FS single IP of us are all
interoperable with those keys before the
IPO FS o dot six release which is in
like four ish weeks
migration small start using bookstore
[Music]
you're still not dating it's already now
we just have one sign review meeting we
need to hope we've been holding off on
this time at least we should plus
schedule that for next week but we
haven't for people that sit who wanted
to attend so host let's get a little
there yeah please do then put me on that
list I think oh that list just design
early proposals says early for the UX
design for data if you're interested
stick to your handle in that list and
then it's more be set up will be next
front any blockers or asks any questions
anything for the parking lot ray that's
it then okay you are all set free this
has been the core implementations we can
sync for Monday the 20th of April
amazing stuff
well done everyone don't touch your face
to say